# Twitch Setup

Configuring Twitch for apps using **global keys** differs from apps using **app-specific keys**.

### Prerequisites

- Log in to the Arcana Developer Dashboard: <https://dashboard.arcana.network>
- [Register](../../config-auth/register-app/) the app by creating a new app entry in the dashboard.

Client ID

A default [Testnet configuration profile](../../../deploy/deploy-app/) is associated with every registered app. A unique **Client ID** is assigned for the Testnet profile. Only passwordless login is enabled by default.

A newly registered app can be deployed at the Arcana Testnet. Developers must create a Mainnet configuration profile to [deploy it on the Mainnet](../../../deploy/migrate-testnet-mainnet/). A new, unique Client ID is assigned to the Mainnet profile.

Unique App Identifier: ClientID

## Global Keys

Apps that require [global keys](../../../concepts/keyspace-types/) feature **do not need to configure the Social Auth settings** in the Arcana Developer Dashboard.

User onboarding via Twitch is automatically turned on for the app when global keys are enabled.

Global Keys Setting

Global Keys Configuration Change

In the earlier versions of the Arcana Auth SDK, apps using **global keys** were required to configure **Social Auth** settings for the providers. This behavior has changed in the latest release of the Arcana Auth SDK.

If an app was configured for any social login providers and switches over from app-specific to global keyspace later, the **Social Auth** settings will be disabled altogether.

Global Keys: Social Auth Settings Disabled

## App-specific Keys

Follow these steps to configure the **Social Auth** settings and enable user onboarding via Twitch. It requires developers to use the Arcana Developer Dashboard and the [Twitch Developer Dashboard](https://dev.twitch.tv/login).

## 1. Get Redirect URI

Select the app in the **Manage Apps** dashboard screen and click Testnet/Mainnet to configure Twitch in the respective configuration profile. Go to **Configure > Social Auth**. Copy the redirect URI shown on the top right.

Copy Redirect URL

Do not close the **Social Auth** browser tab in the Arcana Developer Dashboard. Open another tab and set up Twitch OAuth.

## 2. Get Twitch ClientID

Go to the [Twitch Developer Console](https://dev.twitch.tv/login) and register the app as a new Twitch application.

Twitch Console: Create New App

Enter the application name.

Specify the **Redirect URI** copied from the Arcana Developer Dashboard in the previous step into the OAuth Redirect URL field of the Twitch Developer Console.

Copy the **ClientID** generated by Twitch for the newly registered application in the Twitch Developer Console. It will be required in the next step while using the Arcana Developer Dashboard for completing the app configuration.

Copy Twitch ClientID

## 3. Update Social Auth

Finally, supply the Twitch **ClientID** into the Arcana Developer Dashboard Twitch settings. In the Arcana Developer Dashboard, click **Configure > Social Auth**. Select **Twitch** icon and refer to *Client ID* input field. Paste the **Client ID** assigned by the Twitch Developer Console.

Update Twitch ClientID

Save the **Social Auth** settings.

*You are all set with the Twitch configuration.*
