# Setup Firebase

Configuring Firebase for apps using **global keys** differs from apps using **app-specific keys**.

### Prerequisites

- Log in to the Arcana Developer Dashboard: <https://dashboard.arcana.network>
- [Register](../../config-auth/register-app/) the app by creating a new app entry in the dashboard.

Client ID

A default [Testnet configuration profile](../../../deploy/deploy-app/) is associated with every registered app. A unique **Client ID** is assigned for the Testnet profile. Only passwordless login is enabled by default.

A newly registered app can be deployed at the Arcana Testnet. Developers must create a Mainnet configuration profile to [deploy it on the Mainnet](../../../deploy/migrate-testnet-mainnet/). A new, unique Client ID is assigned to the Mainnet profile.

Unique App Identifier: ClientID

## Global Keys

Apps that require [global keys](../../../concepts/keyspace-types/) feature **do not need to configure the Social Auth settings** in the Arcana Developer Dashboard.

User onboarding via Firebase is automatically turned on for the app when global keys are enabled.

Global Keys Setting

Global Keys Configuration Change

In the earlier versions of the Arcana Auth SDK, apps using **global keys** were required to configure **Social Auth** settings for the providers. This behavior has changed in the latest release of the Arcana Auth SDK.

If an app was configured for any social login providers and switches over from app-specific to global keyspace later, the **Social Auth** settings will be disabled altogether.

Global Keys: Social Auth Settings Disabled

## App-specific Keys

Follow these steps to configure the **Social Auth** settings and enable user onboarding via Firebase. It requires developers to use the Arcana Developer Dashboard and the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/).

### 1. Get Firebase Project ID

Go to the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com), and create a new project for the app that requires enabling Firebase login.

Add Firebase Project

Note the **Project ID** that is automatically generated by Firebase for the newly created project. It will be required in the next step while completing the app configuration using the Arcana Developer Dashboard.

After creating a Firebase project, register the app with Firebase. For example, to register a web app, in the center of the Firebase console's project overview page, click the Web icon to launch the web app registration workflow.

Register Firebase App

Follow the on-screen instructions to add and initialize the Firebase SDK in your app.

Set up Firebase SDK

You will be required to access the Firebase services such as authentication in your app. That requires you to install and configure the Firebase SDK before integrating the app with the Arcana Auth SDK.

### 2. Update Social Auth

Go to the Arcana Developer Dashboard. Click **Configure > Social Auth** and refer to the Identity Access Managers section. Click **Firebase**. Paste the **Project ID** assigned by Firebase Console in the 'Project ID' field.

Update Firebase Project ID

Save the **Social Auth** settings.

*You are all set with the Firebase configuration.*

Plug-and-play login feature not supported for Firebase

The [plug and play feature](../../../concepts/plug-and-play-auth/) of the Arcana Auth SDK does not support social login via Firebase. Developers must build a custom login UI and add code to onboard users. For details, see [onboarding users via Firebase and custom login UI](../../../auth/onboard/vanilla/custom-ui/build-idm/firebase-login/)
